# xi-lambda
<b>A googological function/project involving binary lambda calculus and oracle functions. This repository will track its progress and computation, including lower bounds.</b>
<h3>Credits</h3>
This function is based on Adam Goucher's xi function, which is defined as the longest finite run of a SKI calculus machine that halts. This program, like the xi function, uses an oracle method to go faster than the Busy Beaver function, because it can encode Busy Beavers themselves.
<br>
The code here was largely generated by ChatGPT. However, it is simply being used to implement my ideas as real programming in the fraction of the time that making such programs myself would create. These are not purely my original ideas, but the combination of these ideas is original.
<h3>Explanation of Busy Beaver</h3>
The busy beaver problem is a problem in computer science that is loosely defined as the largest finite amount of Turing machines of a given size. The classic Busy Beaver is defined as a Turing machine on a blank tape that can go left or right. Because of how many functions can be defined on computers, this function grows absurdly fast. In fact, it grows faster than any computable function because after some point, it will be able to contain such a function, even if it is not able to be computed in real life.
<h3>Connection to BLC (binary lambda calculus)</h3>
Like the Turing machine of Busy Beavers, binary lambda calculus is Turing-complete, meaning it is able to execute (at least in theory), any program that can be simulated on a computer. This means that it is possible to apply the concept of a busy beaver to it.
Interestingly, the language is more expressive than normal Turing machines. This expressiveness does <i>not</i> make it more Turing-complete, but it makes it more efficient at Turing-completeness.
<h3>What we will do here</h3>
On this site, I will be posting BLC machines. I am also uploading the code for the programs and will upload graphics for it.
